[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: Probably
the thing that I
use shortcuts for the most
is in my editor like Sublime.
MATT GAUNT: This is
one of the nice things
that I've been realizing
between Sublime and Atom,
and I think one of
the main reasons I
keep on switching
between the two
is some of the shortcuts
are exactly the same.
Like the shortcut where you
just command or control,
you click on a few
different lines
and then you get the
multiple cursors.
And then anything you do
or type is just duplicated
across all of those lines.
It's super simple,
super nice, and it's
exactly the same in both.
ADDY OSMANI: Did you
know that because-- so
a lot of in-browser
developer tools
use CodeMirror for their
editor, and because it now
supports Sublime text
shortcuts-- in lot of cases--
you can use command click in--
I believe it's Chrome DevTools,
Firefox DevTools.
And I haven't checked
IE, but eh, maybe?
MATT GAUNT: Hopefully.
Nice.
ADDY OSMANI: Something
someone could
file a bug for if it
doesn't support it just yet.
MATT GAUNT: Fix all the bugs.
ADDY OSMANI: So a shortcut that
I use quite a lot is command R,
and that basically lets me
go and look up a symbol.
So let's say I'm working
on a little utility library
and I want to search
through the methods.
Command R would
just list them out
in a nice pretty list for me.
I can easily just
jump to any method.
MATT GAUNT: Nice,
that's really cool.
It would be really,
really good if you
could get the point where--
like for the [? S6 ?]
classes-- if it could
point to other files
that you're importing
in this one.
ADDY OSMANI: Yes.
MATT GAUNT: I used to
love that from all the IDs
from, like, native development.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah,
I think-- I want
to say that WebStorm
supports something like that,
but I could be wrong.
I think some of their
intellisense stuff
is intelligent enough
to figure that out.
MATT GAUNT: That
makes sense, yeah.
ADDY OSMANI: But
I could be wrong.
On top of command click,
another thing you sometimes need
is the ability to smart replace.
Do you do that in Atom?
MATT GAUNT: I don't
know what it is.
ADDY OSMANI: OK, so smart
replace is useful for-- well,
let's say you've got a variable
name or namespace where
you want to replace all of the
instances of it very quickly,
and you're working with a
ton of different variables.
You just select one instance
of it, use the shortcut,
and you can just
type in whatever
you want and it'll replace it.
MATT GAUNT: Nice.
ADDY OSMANI: It's kind of nice.
MATT GAUNT: So is that
just a bit more intelligent
than something like just
command F or whatever,
just for find and replace?
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah, it's in
case you need a little bit
more flexibility.
MATT GAUNT: OK, cool.
ADDY OSMANI: So one
thing, I love to-do apps.
MATT GAUNT: To-do
[? NVC, ?] just
casually drop that in there.
ADDY OSMANI: Just
casually dropping it in.
You know, if you create
a to-do list that's
got like-- if the first
to-do is make a to-do list,
and the second is check off
the first thing on the list,
you've already done two things.
You can go off and have tacos.
MATT GAUNT: [LAUGHING]
ADDY OSMANI: You
accomplished a lot.
So I use a Sublime shortcut.
I think it's shift command
L to select a line of text,
and then I use
another shortcut that
lets me wrap that
text inside HTML tags.
And I can go and
customize what type of tag
is actually in there,
which is kind of neat.
MATT GAUNT: I've played
around with this before,
but only through Emmet.
I don't think Atom
has that command,
but it's super nice,
because yeah, you just
hit that one command, add the
p tags to the [? enzo ?] size,
and the next thing you
type is just-- you're going
to replace the p in that tag.
It's really, really simple.
ADDY OSMANI: That's pretty neat.
So I've used the Emmet
plug-in for Sublime as well,
and it is pretty neat.
It's actually a little
bit more advanced
than the wrapping stuff
I was showing before,
where like you've got--
I think with Emmet,
you can actually supply complex
class names, and tell it,
I want it to add a
variable that includes
the current index for each
item in the list, which
can be nice if you're working
on a markup list of some sort.
MATT GAUNT: Emmet's
entire thing seems
to be around trying
to make you spit out
boilerplate code in the shortest
possible form that you can.
The biggest problem
that I have with it--
and generally, with
all these keyboard
shortcuts-- is how
do you remember what
the shortcut is to then use it?
Because the minute you've
got it in your head
and you understand it, it's
fine because at that point,
it comes down to muscle memory.
But it's getting to that point.
How do you remember
the shortcuts?
Do you--
ADDY OSMANI: I think
part of it is just
using them on a daily basis.
Like with the
stuff I was showing
before, another
shortcut I commonly use
is like a line bubbling
thing, that let's
me move items up and down.
And it's just the
fact that I use lists
a lot in my daily
workflow that that forces
me to remember these things.
Something that a
lot of my friends do
is they actually-- you
are my friend, colleague.
So one thing that
my friends do is
they'll print out a cheat
sheet of the shortcuts they
use pretty commonly,
and they'll just
have it sitting right
next to the keyboard.
And they'll be looking
at it every day,
and eventually
you'll remember it.
MATT GAUNT: Thanks, colleague.
So that actually
kind of a sense.
It kind of sounds like one
of those old blogs that
used to be like, this
is the word of the day,
and then you learn a
new word every day,
except you could just have
it with keyboard shortcut,
just on your desk with
a nice little bow.
ADDY OSMANI: Print
it out on some paper.
It's great.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, I mean,
you're kind of killing trees
and what have you,
but it's fine.
We'll just pretend
that doesn't exist.
ADDY OSMANI: Trees can't
give you YouTube likes, Matt.
MATT GAUNT: That is true.
[MUSIC PLAYING]